# Summary: *Introduction to Algorithms* by Cormen, Leiserson, Rivest, and Stein (CLRS) - 3rd Edition  
**By:** [Pedro Achilles Carvalho](https://www.linkedin.com/in/pedro-achilles-carvalho/)

---

# 1.1 Algorithms

---

## Concepts

### Algorithms  
An algorithm is a set of well-defined computational procedures that take a value or set of values as input (an instance of a problem) and produce an output. It can also be considered a tool used to solve a well-specified computational problem that determines the relationship between input and output while the algorithm describes a computational procedure to satisfy it.

An algorithm is considered correct if, for every input, it halts and returns the correct output. An incorrect algorithm may not halt or may return incorrect results, but can still be useful if we can control its error rate.

### Data Structures  
A data structure is a way of storing and organizing data to facilitate access and modifications. No single data structure works well for all purposes, so it's important to understand the strengths and limitations of each.

---

## Exercises

**1.1-1 Cite a real-world example that requires sorting or a real-world example that requires computing a convex hull.**
**R:** _An example of sorting is displaying products in an e-commerce platform in a desired order, such as from lowest to highest price.  
An example that requires computing a convex hull (like the rubber band around nails) is a program that outlines an object in an image, such as photo editors that offer automatic background removal._

**1.1-2 Besides speed, what other efficiency metrics could be used in a real-world setting?**
**R:** _Memory, energy efficiency, ability to parallelize, latency._

**1.1-3 Select a data structure you’ve encountered before and discuss its strengths and limitations.**
**R:** _A queue can be efficient for problems where elements should be used in the order they arrived. However, it may be limiting for problems where this order is not necessary._

**1.1-4 In what ways are the _shortest-path_ and _traveling salesman_ problems similar? In what ways are they different?**
**R:** _Shortest-path problems typically aim to find the minimum distance between two points, possibly passing through others.  
The traveling salesman problem seeks a circular route that starts and ends at the same point, visiting each other point exactly once.  
Shortest-path problems have optimal algorithms available, while the traveling salesman problem is NP-complete, with no known optimal solution or proof that one exists._

**1.1-5 Show a real-world problem where only the best solution will do. Then, show a problem where an “approximately” best solution is sufficient.**
**R:** _Calculating a product discount based on some metric requires precise results.  
A recommendation algorithm based on customer profile, however, can be approximate._
